# Data & Technology Services Update | Dec 2019

## Personnel Update

We are happy to announce that Alan De Anda has been promoted to IT Geospatial Analyst Sr. Alan will continue to serve as our resident expert on all things related to active transportation, and is currently leading projects related to bicycle rack data collection, the citywide print bike map, and our upcoming street data mapathon.

Stephanie Moorer joined the team in September as a part-time IT Project Manager. Before joining ATD, Stephanie served as the IT Manager over CTM's Application Support group. Stephanie brings more than 25 years of IT experience to ATD, and will be managing the procurement of mobile payment and permitting solutions for the Parking Enterprise Division.

Last month we welcomed Jace Deloney to the team as a Product Manager. Jace was previously a Product Manager at moovel, where he oversaw their mobile transit ticketing platform. Jace brings a wealth of knowledge in product management and transportation, and will be managing our Vision Zero products as well as our business intelligence procurment.

Our complete team member listing:

| Name                | Title           | Office       |
|:----|:----|:----|
| Amenity Applewhite | Product Manager | Cameron Rd |
| Surbhi Bakshi         | IT Application Analyst Sr | Cameron Rd |
| Mateo Clarke         | Senior Software Developer           | Cameron Rd |
| John Clary          | Supervisor      | Cameron Rd |
| Alan De Anda         | IT Geospatial Analyst Sr           | Cameron Rd |
| Jace Deloney        | Product Manager                | Cameron Rd |
| Mike Dilley         | Junior Software Developer                | Cameron Rd |
| Sergio Garcia         | Senior Data Engineer                | Cameron Rd |
| Tracy Linder        | Product Manager                | Toomey Rd |
| Diana Martin        | Solution Architect           | Cameron Rd |
| Jaime McKeown         | Senior Geospatial Analyst | Cameron Rd |
| Stephanie Moorer         | Project Manager | Remote / Part Time |
| Scott Reedy         | Network Systems Administrator                | Barton Oaks |
| Tyler Whitson         | Junior Software Developer                | Cameron Rd |
| *Vacant x2 (PRF in progress)*         | Geospatial Technician (temp)                | Cameron Rd |
| *Vacant (PRF in progress)*         | IT Data Architect                | Cameron Rd |

## Introducing Our Project Roadmap 🚲

You can now view our project roadmap, [here](https://app.roadmunk.com/publish/a6d46a8f9677fadcca4a4cfa5ac628c9b9396e80). Projects are organized by workgroup and status, and you can click on any project card to view its details. The roadmap is updated on a monthly basis. Feedback welcome!

## Project Status

### [Mobile Signal Work Orders](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-mobile-signals-work-orders) | Complete ✅

We built a mobile-first work order application for traffic signal work orders. The app is integrated with the Data Tracker, and allows field technicians to quickly and accurately review and respond to traffic signal issues from a mobile device.

*Update: After two rounds of beta testing, we shipped a number of small enhancements and have v1.0 of the mobile app has been released for use by all signal technicians.*

### [Vision Zero Data Management System](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-vz-data) | Complete ✅

This project seeks to centralize and streamline the management of ATD's Vision Zero data. As a result of this project, staff will have a standardized interface for reviewing crash data, prioritizing intersection safety improvements, and communicating efforts to the public.

*Update: Version 1.0 of the crash data editor has been released. Vision Zero staff are now using the app to review and edit crash data for fatal and serious injuries. Work has begun on the Vision Zero dashboard (see below).*

### [Transportation Data Lake Pilot](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/132) | Complete ✅

This project will enable the City of Austin to house its own transportation data in cloud services and federate data access to our business partners.

*Update: The pilot phase of the Data Lake is complete. GRIDSMART, Bluetooth travel time, and radar count day are now supplied via the data lake. The complete technical architecture and implementation guide are documented [here](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-lake/blob/master/docs/index.md). This month we kicked off a second phase of the project under a new contrat task with UT CTR. This year's efforts will focus on 3rd-party data consumers as well as integration with our Business Intelligence platform (see below)*

### [Development Review Workflow Management](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/460) | Beta Release 🐠

This project will deliver a solution for ATD Development Review case management. The solution will allow the Transportation Engineering project manager and various reviewers (AKA the Vision Team) to collaborate on the development cases ATD is responsible for reviewing. The users will be able to view case information, set review deadlines, assign reviews to the Vision Team members, and provide review comments directly to the case record.

*Update: The beta version of the app has been released for use by TDS staff, and more than seventy review comments have been collected from project reviewers.*

### [Bike Rack Data Inventory](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/638) | Beta Release 🐠

DTS GIS staff has set up an online bike rack data collection and tracking system for Parking Enforcement and Active Transportation to manage the installation and maintenance of bike racks in the City of Austin. Location data is currently being collected in the field. Further analysis will determine the location of new bike racks and identify bike racks in need of maintenance.

### [Mobility Project Database](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-mobility-project-database) | In Progress 🛠️

We are building a platform to manage ATD’s complete portfolio of mobility-related infrastructure projects.

*Update: We are currently interviewing users from various workgroups to learn about their project tracking workflows and data. So far we have worked with:*

* - Arterial Management*
* - Transportation Engineering*
* - Office of the Director and Systems Development  — focused on funding*
* - Vision Zero  *
* - Signs, Markings, and Banners*
* - Public Works - general*

*Up next we've got:*
* - Systems Development*
* - Transit Enhancement*
* - Public Works - Urban Trails*

*We'll also be learning more about eCapris, Capital Projects Explorer, and the Capital Improvement Projects GIS feature class.  During our first Sprint Review in mid-November, we'll present our research findings and discuss next steps with stakeholders.*

### [Parking Data Management](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-geospatial/issues/23) | In Progress 🛠️

We are conducting a complete overhaul of our parking asset data. This effort will improve accuracy, reduce redundant data entry, and facilitate integrated curb management for right-of-way permitting and new mobility technologies.

*Update: Attribute Rules in ArcGIS Pro have proved to be a stable method for calculating the unique ID fields. Work continues on data migration into SDE with the Block Segments now 100% complete.*

### [Residential Parking Permits](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-residential-parking-permits) | In Progress 🛠️

The project encapsulates our work to modernize the Residential Parking Permit (RPP) program. The effort includes the procurement or development of a web-based permitting interface, through which residents can easily apply for and renew their residential parking permits.

*Update: This project's requirements will now be incorporated into one or more RFPs for parking technology services. Our current focus is the development of the RFP(s) to be opened in spring 2020.*

### [ROWMAN Phase 2](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/420) | In Progress 🛠️

Phase 2 of the ROWMAN Replacement Project will provide 3 major updates to the web portal Right of Way Management permit applicants use to submit, manage, and pay for permits. Tasks include: 

- Creating a new AMANDA folder for managing sidewalk cafe and street patio permits, and adding this permit type to the web portal for applicants.

- Adding an interactive web map to the ROW portal applications, allowing applicants to use a map to add properties to their application.

- Updating the interactive web map to include advanced features such as duplicating previous applications, picking parking spaces directly from the map, and the integration of related GIS data that will increase staff's ability to review requests.

*Update: The new PSM folder was put on hold until the post payment features are stable. We may try to go live in December. Basic click map is undergoing user acceptance testing.*

### [ROWMAN Phase 3](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/421) | In Progress 🛠️

Phase 3 of the ROWMAN Replacement Project will automate fees and payments of Right of Way permits, and give applicants the ability to update certain permits that have already been created in the AMANDA system.

### [ROWMAN Phase 4](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/422) | In Progress 🛠️

Phase 4 of the ROWMAN Replacement Project focuses on improving Right of Way Management's ability to coordinate activities in the right of way. The highest priority of this phase is to begin collecting real time closure data from permit applicants.

*Update: We are currently defining all of the acceptance criteria for this project, to be completed by mid-December.*

### [Data & Tech Services Delivery Workflow](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/83) | In Progress 🛠️

We're designing and documenting the processes the DTS team can use to intake, manage, and deliver services. This project is near 60% complete. Currently we are working on finishing the service delivery road map diagrams, creating project document templates, and updating the customer submittal forms.

*Update: We have soft-launched the service request form along with some of the templates and processes that will be fundamental to the new delivery workflow. We're excited to loop our new Product Manager in to the project and work with them to fine-tune and roll out the workflow to the team and our customers.*

### [DTS Branding, Identity, and Standards](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/115) | In Progress 🛠️

Our customers, prospective team members, and potential collaborators should understand who we are, what we do, and why it matters. We want them to know us, trust us and join us in our efforts to empower people with the data and technology they need to improve mobility in Austin.

*Update: We've established our [mission and values](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-8aoG1dNVj-r28d53BqhwtNZmm5YtaEEG8Cpdjl41iM/edit#heading=h.8voddqksq5vm). Next up we're looking to a redesign of our website, [data.mobility.austin.gov](https://data.mobility.austin.gov).* 🙌

### [Vision Zero Citation Reporting App](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/145) | In Progress 🛠️

We are building an app for APD officers to use when making Vision Zero in Action citations. By digitizing the process, we can streamline workflows and collect structured data that we can use to inform VZA program management.

*Update: We have completed all the must-have features for the first release of the app along with a set of reports for staff — citation breakdowns by location, time, officer, etc.  — that will help them manage the program. In the coming weeks we'll be doing moderated usability testing with APD officers to learn how we can improve their experience using the app.*

### [Traffic Registry Digitization](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/129) | In Progress 🛠️

This is an effort to digitize all of our street regulations in a geospatial database, as well as set up sustainable processes to keep the Traffic Registry accurately maintained. The registry includes more than 50k regulations, and is currently managed in Access DB, without any spatial data features.

*Update: After a 6-month hiatus, AECOMM was authorized to proceed in June. Work is 20% complete. ETA June 2020.*

### [Warehouse Inventory](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/145) | In Progress 🛠️

Arterial Management needs a warehouse management solution. They are responsible for tracking assets across multiple warehouse locations and vehicles. There are also an increasing number of non-AMD assets, such as bike racks, that are stored in the warehouse. 

*Update: We pushed back our first release in order to revisit financial tracking requirements. We expect to release a Beta version for testing in mid-december*

### [Vision Zero Viewer](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-vz-data/issues/8) | In Progress 🛠️

Public-facing interactive web map/app which shows data related to vision zero.

*Update: Development work began in October, and the first release will focus on replicating the translating the static monthly Vision Zero statistics to an interacticve dashboard.* 

### [Street Sign Data Collection](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/131) | In Progress 🛠️

This is an effort to acquire comprehensive citywide street sign data. With the release of our new Signs Work Orders app and attendant GIS processes, we are now accurately tracking the installation and maintenance of our street sign assets. However, we do not have reliable data on the condition and location of our existing street sign assets. This project will evaluate options for acquiring this data through procurement, manual collection, our otherwise. 

*Update: This project kicked off in October, with Signs & Markings is leading the procurement and Jaime M. providing technical guidance. We are aiming to post the RFP mid-summer.*


### [Shared Mobility Data Privacy](https://github.com/openmobilityfoundation/privacy-committee) | In Progress 🛠️

In this project, we are developing a process to aggregate trip origins and destinations in a way that does not risk re-identifying users, while still being of use to researchers, planners, and members of the public.

This work is being carried out through the Open Mobility Foundation's Privacy, Security, and Transparency committee, which ATD is chairing.

*Update: We kicked off the committee in November, and have identified two near-term deliverables:*

*- Inventory of the State of Practice
A catalog of current principles, policies, methods, and technologies applicable to location data privacy and anonymization.*

*- Privacy and Security Considerations Checklist
A guide for mobility data users that addresses key questions and considerations when making technology and policy decisions.*