# Data & Technology Services Update | Aug 2019

## Personnel Update

Last month, Matt Stevens accepted a Geospatial Analyst position with CTM/HSEM. We will miss Matt's scrupulous data management skills!

We're happy to announce that Surbhi Bakshi joined our team on August 19th as an IT Application Analyst Sr. Surbhi hails from CTM and DSD, and brings a wealth of experience in GIS, application management, and process automation. Surbhi's work will focus on Knack application development, including Q4 projects for the HR vacancy list, Vision Zero in Action, and Development Review workflow management.

Our complete team member listing:

| Name                | Title           | Office       |
|:----|:----|:----|
| Amenity Applewhite | Product Manager | Cameron Rd |
| Surbhi Bakshi         | IT Application Analyst Sr | Cameron Rd |
| Mateo Clarke         | Senior Software Developer           | Cameron Rd |
| John Clary          | Supervisor      | Cameron Rd |
| Alan De Anda         | Geospatial Technician           | Barton Oaks |
| Mike Dilley         | Junior Software Developer                | Cameron Rd |
| Sergio Garcia         | Senior Data Engineer                | Cameron Rd |
| Tracy Linder        | Product Manager                | Toomey Rd |
| Diana Martin        | Solution Architect           | Cameron Rd |
| Jaime McKeown         | Senior Geospatial Analyst | Cameron Rd |
| Scott Reedy         | Network Systems Administrator                | Barton Oaks |
| Tyler Whitson         | Junior Software Developer                | Cameron Rd |
| *[Vacant (closes 8/29)](https://www.austincityjobs.org/postings/77925)*         | Geospatial Analyst | Cameron Rd |
| *[Vacant (closes 8/28)](https://medium.com/@coaatddts/job-product-manager-austin-transportation-data-technology-services-dcea1d3824e0)*         | Product Manager (temp)                | Cameron Rd |
| *Vacant (hold until after Geospatial Analyst hire )*         | Geospatial Technician (temp)                | Cameron Rd |


## Did you know?

We've been working hard to improve visibility into our work. Going forward, the below project list will include all active projects, as well as any project whose status has changed. We'll be announcing additional ways to keep track of our work in the near future.

## Project Status

### [Signs Work Order & Asset Management Migration](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-knack-data-tracker/issues/42) | Complete ✅

We have completely transitioned street signs operations from the Maximo system to the Data Tracker. This project includes the development of a new, integrated 311 service request management interface, as well as geospatial signs asset tracking. 🎉

### [Right-of-Way Permit Inspection Prioritization — Phase 1](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-amanda/issues/52) | Complete ✅

We developed an automated tool which utilizes multiple data sources to provide ROW inspectors with a prioritized list of their permit inspections, so that the most critical needs are met first. The first version of the tool factors in conditions such as road class, permit duration, and the size of the affected area.

### [Traffic Count Centralization](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/410) | Complete ✅

This project created a new module in the Data Tracker to help streamline the traffic count and data collection request process for our Data Collection team. This helped the tracking of the data requests and made the process transparent and easier.

### [Mobile Signal Work Orders](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-mobile-signals-work-orders) | Beta Release 🐠

We are building a mobile-first work order application for traffic signal work orders. The app will be integrated with the Data Tracker, and will allow field technicians to quickly and accurately review and respond to traffic signal issues from a mobile device.

*Update: Development work is complete. Next week we will begin piloting a beta version of the app with three traffic signal technicians.*

### [Mobility Project Database](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-mobility-project-database) | In Progress 🛠️

We are building a platform to manage ATD’s complete portfolio of mobility-related infrastructure projects.

*Update: We completed discovery research focused on Active Transportation's [Interim Project Database](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wja5Hfnchu93j4w7ATYNKO_-5lWixEMyEkulGqIe2l8/edit) and high-level technical strategies. Our [project kickoff with MPD stakeholders](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-mobility-project-database/issues/8#issuecomment-515208937) helped us develop our understanding of user needs and organizational vision. We will soon bring in an external consultant to continue requirements gathering and design the MPD data architecture.*
 
*To stay involved and receive regular updates on MPD, please fill out this one-minute [stakeholder survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdUEPR3fM5gTpHMc0gdTUTLyx6ibmySci_QaQrQstElg6C0KQ/viewform).*

### [Parking Data Management](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-geospatial/issues/23) | In Progress 🛠️

We are conducting a complete overhaul of our parking asset data. This effort will improve accuracy, reduce redundant data entry, and facilitate integrated curb management for right-of-way permitting and new mobility technologies.

*Update: Test editing revealed that the relationship classes needed to be modified, so the schemas are being reworked. We've also determined that, due to enhanced editing capabilities in regards to related data, the new process will move directly into ArcGIS Pro.*

### [Residential Parking Permits](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-residential-parking-permits) | In Progress 🛠️

The project encapsulates our work to modernize the Residential Parking Permit (RPP) program. The effort includes the procurement or development of a web-based permitting interface, through which residents can easily apply for and renew their residential parking permits.

*Update: We have refined user stories, calculated [costs of the current RPP process](https://cityofaustin.sharepoint.com/:x:/s/ResidentialParkingPermitApplication/ESD-2AENhERJph8M7HHXNQMB_XF2LWZ6yrSdCwy56uOuIQ?e=PXUm48), and [compiled requirements](https://cityofaustin.sharepoint.com/:x:/s/ResidentialParkingPermitApplication/EUOIzkWg8EFMgyR2jEvs3DsBDZYQxwNIFJog3nqH1_kXFQ?e=sRDyuz) in an SOW. We are now amending ATD's [ParkATX](https://www.parkatxapp.com/) contract to include a [permitting solution](https://www.passportinc.com/product/permits/) that the vendor, Passport Labs, offers. We will pilot the application for a year before posting a formal RFP for long-term solutions.*

### [Vision Zero Data Management](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-vz-data) | In Progress 🛠️

This project seeks to centralize and streamline the management of ATD's Vision Zero data. As a result of this project, staff will have a standardized interface for reviewing crash data, prioritizing intersection safety improvements, and communicating efforts to the public.

*Update: We have completed work on an automated pipeline from the TxDOT's crash database (CRIS), and are currently readying an alpha version of the crash editing interface.*

### [ROWMAN Phase 2](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/420) | In Progress 🛠️

Phase 2 of the ROWMAN Replacement Project will provide 3 major updates to the web portal Right of Way Management permit applicants use to submit, manage, and pay for permits. Tasks include: 

- Creating a new AMANDA folder for managing sidewalk cafe and street patio permits, and adding this permit type to the web portal for applicants.

- Adding an interactive web map to the ROW portal applications, allowing applicants to use a map to add properties to their application.

- Updating the interactive web map to include advanced features such as duplicating previous applications, picking parking spaces directly from the map, and the integration of related GIS data that will increase staff's ability to review requests.

*Update: We are currently working through some bugs with the basic click map fatures in test. These features will go to production ASAP. Next up we will begin UAT for the advanced features of the click map. The new PSM folder will likely go live this month (August).*

### [ROWMAN Phase 3](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/421) | In Progress 🛠️

Phase 3 of the ROWMAN Replacement Project will automate fees and payments of Right of Way permits, and give applicants the ability to update certain permits that have already been created in the AMANDA system.

*Update: The updates to fee procedures on ROW permits should go live this month (August). We just began UAT on self-assignment on UC & LM folders, and have identified a few critical issues that will require at least one more round of full UAT. After the fee procedures go to live, we will begin UAT on self-assignment for RW & EX folders.*

### [ROWMAN Phase 4](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/422) | In Progress 🛠️

Phase 4 of the ROWMAN Replacement Project focuses on improving Right of Way Management's ability to coordinate activities in the right of way. The highest priority of this phase is to begin collecting real time closure data from permit applicants.

*Update: This phase is active as of 8/12/19. We're currently working on a proof of concept that to share with the team. Once a high level scope of work is approved, a request for an estimate will be sent to Unisys. Next, funding will need to be secured from the Case Management Governing Board. If all goes well, development could start in October.*

### [Data & Tech Services Delivery Workflow](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/83) | In Progress 🛠️

We're designing and documenting the processes the DTS team can use to intake, manage, and deliver services. This project is near 60% complete. Currently we are working on finishing the service delivery road map diagrams, creating project document templates, and updating the customer submittal forms.

### [Transportation Data Lake](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/132) | In Progress 🛠️

This project will enable the City of Austin to house its own transportation data in cloud services and federate data access to our business partners.

*Update: The first phase of the project is 80% complete. Approximately 15 million [GRIDSMART traffic count records](https://data.austintexas.gov/Transportation-and-Mobility/Camera-Traffic-Counts/sh59-i6y9 ) were published from the data lake to the open data portal last week.*


### [DTS Branding, Identity, and Standards](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/115) | In Progress 🛠️

Our customers, prospective team members, and potential collaborators should understand who we are, what we do, and why it matters. We want them to know us, trust us and join us in our efforts to empower people with the data and technology they need to improve mobility in Austin.

*Update: After pitching at Github's Open Source for Good volunteer event, we got a small but mighty team of Hubbers to help move this important work forward.* 🙌

### [Vision Zero Citation Reporting App](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/145) | In Progress 🛠️

We are building an app for APD officers to use when making Vision Zero in Action citations. By digitizing the process, we can streamline workflows and collect structured data that we can use to inform VZA program management.

*Update: We have [interviewed primary users](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/208#issuecomment-506549653) and started [implementation in Knack](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/238). Once the initial prototype is ready, we will do a stakeholder demo, perform usability testing, and iterate on the app.*

### [Traffic Registry Digitization](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/129) | In Progress 🛠️

This is an effort to digitize all of our street regulations in a geospatial database, as well as set up sustainable processes to keep the Traffic Registry accurately maintained. The registry includes more than 50k regulations, and is currently managed in Access DB, without any spatial data features.

*Update: After a 6-month hiatus, AECOMM was authorized to proceed in June. Work is 20% complete. ETA June 2020.*

### [Street Sign Data Collection](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/131) | Scoping 🔎

This is an effort to acquire comprehensive citywide street sign data. With the release of our new Signs Work Orders app and attendant GIS processes, we are now accurately tracking the installation and maintenance of our street sign assets. However, we do not have reliable data on the condition and location of our existing street sign assets. This project will evaluate options for acquiring this data through procurement, manual collection, our otherwise. 

### [Development Review Workflow Management](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/460) | Scoping 🔎

This project will deliver a solution for ATD Development Review case management. The solution will allow the Transportation Engineering project manager and various reviewers (AKA the Vision Team) to collaborate on the development cases ATD is responsible for reviewing. The users will be able to view case information, set review deadlines, assign reviews to the Vision Team members, and provide review comments directly to the case record.

*Update: Initial intake meeting complete. Our development team will be meeting on 8/20 to review this request, determine a level of effort for development, and estimate when this project is likely to go live.*

### [ATD AMANDA Backlog Development](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/432) | Scoping 🔎

The purpose of this project is to contract with an AMANDA developer to deliver all items on ATD's AMANDA backlog. This project is still being scoped.

*Update: On 8/16 the Case Management Governing Board voted to approve a request to engage Unisys for this work, for up to $400,00, funded by ATD.*

### [Paperless Hiring](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/428) | Needs Scoping 📥

This is an effort to optimize Austin Transportation's HR hiring processes by digitizing paperwork and reducing the need for manual data entry. We met with the HR team on 8/7 to begin our initial discovery work. We expect scoping work to continue after delivery of Development Review Workflow Management (Q1 FY20).

### [Tracking of Uniforms and Protective Equipment](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/323) | Needs Scoping 📥

This request focuses on the issuance and tracking of city-issued uniforms and equipment to staff, with the goal of streamlining the issuance process and eliminating the use of paper forms. This project is yet to be scoped and prioritized.

### [Business Intelligence Discovery](https://github.com/cityofaustin/atd-data-tech/issues/65) | On Hold 📌

The goal of this project is to identify a business intelligence solution for use by ATD employees and all of our stakeholders. The solution should deliver real-time performance monitoring, and drive meaningful insights from our data in an efficient and transparent way. Our goal is to empower ATD staff, ATD stakeholders, and the public to leverage ATD data to inform their work. 

*Update: After an initial planning meeting, we have placed this project on hold until additional project management resources are available. Expect to resume early Q1 FY20.*
