# Data & Technology Services Update | June 2019

## Personnel Update

We've had many changes to the team since our last update. In March, **Jaime McKeown** joined us as a Senior Geospatial Analyst, having previously worked for the Bureau of Land Management in Boise, ID. She supports the Office of Special Events, and is also working on an overhaul of our curb management data.

Also in March, we welcomed **Amenity Applewhite** as a Product Manager. Amenity was previously a Product Manager for CTM's Office of Design and Delivery, where she helped lead the [austin.gov](http://alpha.austin.gov) project. Her current projects include the Mobility Project Database, the modernization of the Residential Parking Permit Program, and our warehouse inventory discovery effort.

I'm also happy to announce that Tyler Whitson (PIO) will be joining our team on a part-time basis as a software developer. Tyler's work will be focused on improvements to [transportation.austintexas.io](http://transportation.austintexas.io).

We've also hired Mike Dilley as our Junior Software Developer. Mike has an analytics background in toxicology data, and will be working in support of the Vision Zero Program.

Additionally, Sergio Garcia joins our team next week as our Senior Data Engineer. Sergio was previously at CTM's Office of Design and Delivery, where he most recently managed backend development and operations support for the new [Office of Police Oversight](https://alpha.austin.gov/police-oversight/) website. Sergio's first projects will be focused on micrmobility data management and systems integrations.

Last month, Garry Olson stepped down from his position as IT Business Systems Analyst, and Joey Liang stepped down from his position as IT Application Analyst. We will miss both of their valuable contributions to the team, and wish them well in their future endeavors.

Our complete team member listing:

| Name                | Title           | Office       |
|:----|:----|:----|
| Amenity Applewhite | Product Manager | Cameron Rd |
| John Clary          | Supervisor      | Cameron Rd |
| Mateo Clarke         | Senior Software Developer           | Cameron Rd |
| Alan De Anda         | Geospatial Technician           | Barton Oaks |
| Mike Dilley         | Junior Software Developer                | Cameron Rd |
| Sergio Garcia         | Senior Data Engineer                | Cameron Rd |
| Tracy Linder        | Product Manager                | Toomey Rd |
| Diana Martin        | Solution Architect           | Cameron Rd |
| Jamie McKeown         | Senior Geospatial Analyst | Cameron Rd |
| Scott Reedy         | Network Systems Administrator                | Barton Oaks |
| Matt Stevens         | Geospatial Technician                | Cameron Rd |
| Tyler Whitson         | Junior Software Developer                | Cameron Rd |
| *Vacant (Posting in-progress)*         | IT Application Analyst | Cameron Rd |
| *Vacant (reclass in-progress)*         | Geospatial Analyst | Cameron Rd |

## Did you know?

Jaime McKeown is ATD's new GIS Single-Point-of-Contat (SPOC). Please route all new GIS requests, including software installations, to Jaime.

## Project Highlights

### Mobile Signal Work Orders | In Progress

We are building a mobile-first work order application for traffic signal work orders. The app will be integrated with the Data Tracker, and allows field technicians to quickly and accurately review and respond to traffic signal issues from a mobile device.

### Mobility Project Database | In Progress

This database application will provide an online project tracking environment for ATD's mobility  project stakeholders, including Active Transportation & Street Design, Transportation Engineering, Arterial Management, and Vision Zero. Objectives include the standardization of departmental program and project tracking processes, self-service reporting, as well as integration with GIS, 311, work order management, and E-Capris.

### Parking Data Overhaul | In Progress

We are conducting a complete overhaul of our parking asset data. This effort will improve accuracy, reduce redundant data entry, and facilitate integrated curb management for right-of-way permitting and new mobility technologies.

### Residential Parking Permits | In Progress

The project encapsulates our work to modernize the Residential Parking Permit (RPP) program. The effort includes the procurement or development of a web-based permitting interface, through which residents can easily apply for and renew their residential parking permits.

### Right-of-Way Permit Inspection Prioritization | In Progress

We are developing an automated tool which utilizes multiple data sources to provide ROW inspectors with a prioritized list of their permit inspections, so that the most critical needs are met first. The first version of the tool will factor in conditions such as road class, permit duration, and the size of the affected area.

### Signs Work Order & Asset Management Migration | In Progress

We are working to completely transition street signs operations from the Maximo system to the Data Tracker. This project includes the development of a new, integrated 311 service request management interface, as well as geospatial signs asset tracking.

### Street Banner Request Intake & Management | Complete

Delivered in April, 2019. This project migrated the street banner management system from SharePoint to a Knack-based application. The project added needed functionality around banner reservations scheduling, invoicing, and tracking of installation work. Congrats, Diana Martin, for her outstanding work on this project!

### Vision Zero Data Management | In Progress

This project seeks to centralize and streamline the management of ATD's Vision Zero data. As a result of this project, staff will have a standardized interface for reviewing crash data, prioritizing intersection safety improvements, and communicating efforts to the public.