# Data & Technology Services Update | August 2018

## We Exist!
The Data and Technology Services team officially came into existence last month. Our duty is to act as a central technology unit servicing the entire department. Over the coming months we will be reaching out to all division managers to formally introduce you to the team and to evaluate your current IT needs and priorities. We categorize our capabilities by service area, as follows:


## What We Do
#### Geospatial Services
- Print and web maps
- Spatial Analysis
- Data creation and design

#### Application Support
- Enterprise application support
- Enterprise application configuration
- Process refinement
- Data creation and design

#### Infrastructure & Engineering
- Desktop hardware and software installation and support
- Systems integrations
- Data engineering
- Software development

#### Professional Services
- Project management
- Solutions consulting
- Acceptance testing
- Reporting


### Who We Are
We currently 10-strong, with two vacant positions moving through re-classification. Our team and office locations are as follows:

| Name                | Title           | Office      |
|:----|:----|:----|
| John Clary          | IT Supervisor        | Toomey Rd |
| Alan DeAnda         | IT Geospatial Technician           | Toomey Rd |
| Susanne Gov         | IT Geospatial Technician           | Toomey Rd |
| Joey Liang          | Engineering Associate Intern           | Toomey Rd |
| Tracy Linder        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | LCRA |
| Diana Martin        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr           | Toomey Rd |
| Garry Olson, Jr     | IT Business Sys. Analyst                | LCRA |
| Mat Peck            | IT Geospatial Analyst                 | OTC |
| Robert Powell       | IT Support Analyst                | LCRA |
| Scott Reedy         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | LCRA |

### Project Highlights
You can find all of our active and planned projects on our [Trello board](https://trello.com/b/pNbgaKme/data-technology-services-operations). No login required.

#### Purchase Request System Upgrade (OPRAS 2.0) | In Progress
The existing OPRAS platform is no longer supported by AFD. We're rebuilding the system on Knack. Currently implementing a second round of changes based on feedback from Finance and Admin division. Targeting 9/1 to begin training end-users and go-live on 10/1/2018.

#### Traffic Registry Map and Re-Design | In Progress
We are converting the traffic registry to a Knack-based application, and we have contract support from AECOM to map the existing registry in GIS. ETA 12/1/2018.

#### ROWMAN Replacement (Phase 1) | Complete
The Right of Way Management permitting team is now providing their customers with online permitting services for 10/12 of their permits. The project kicked off in late 2015 and included migrating ROW’s 6 existing online applications to the Austin Build + Connect Portal, and adding 4 new permit services online. The new portal allows customers to submit permit requests, monitor their permit status, pay permit fees online, and submit required documentation.

#### ROWMAN Replacement (Phases 2 & 3) | In Progress
Series of ROWMAN enhancements, including:
- Customer ability to use a map selector tool to identify and add properties to permit applications
- automatically attach related parking GIS data to permit application
- Better data capture for reporting and coordination abilities.
- New portal permit application for temporary sidewalk/patio cafes
- Automated permit invoicing
- Contractor Self-Assignment tool which  allows customers to assign valid contractors to existing pending permits and submit other pending permit application information. See Trello for individual deliverables.

#### Markings Work Orders Map Viewer | In Progress
This web map application will display completed markings work orders submitted through the Data Tracker. Users will be able to search/view markings work orders by type, requester, etc. Currently acceptance testing. ETA 9/1/2018.

#### Dockless Mobility Parking Map Collector | Complete
Procured Android tablets and developed a  "Collector" mobile mapping app for easy in-situ data collection using City Staff or volunteers to collect meaningful data for the Dockless mobility programs. This is the first Collector app used for data collection by ATD, and it has already inspired requests for more custom field data collection apps.

#### ArcGIS Server editing of Production GIS layers | In Progress
This project will allow ArcGIS Online users to edit production ArcSDE GIS layers directly from the field, providing real-time data to on-premise GIS servers, unlike ArcGIS Online hosted services which need to be synced manually with the Production datasets. Testing in progress. ETA 10/1/2018

#### Fleet Management/Checkout App | In Progress
This project will replace current paper and sharepoint-based fleet management and vehicle checkout with a web-based Knack application. Currently collecting requirements and scoping level of effort. ETA Spring 2019.

#### Comprehensive Transportation Network (CTN) GIS Layer | In Progress
The comprehensive transportation network (CTN) has been developed to serve as an authoritative source for existing and proposed conditions for on and off street facilities. All divisions with ownership of elements within the CTN will update the CTN as existing conditions change (and plans are implemented), including Urban Trails in PWD. The Dataset has been deployed in production and we will supporting maintenance and training affected staff on an ongoing basis.

#### Digital Inventory | In Progress
We are developing a digital inventory solution which will replace paper-based inventory processes for Arterial Management, Signs & Markings, and Parking Meters. The solution is being developed as a Data Tracker module, and will be implemented for AMD this fall, followed by Signs & Markings in early spring 2019.

#### Data Publishing Script Upgrades | In Progress
We are refactoring our data publishing scripts to use a central “script launcher.” This will reduce redundancy and streamline our deployment process.

#### Active Directory Services for Knack Applications | Complete
It is now possible to login to Knack applications using your COA email and password. The functionality is in place for the Data Tracker and Service Request portal. And will be available in all other apps moving forward.
