# Data & Technology Services Update | January 2019

## Personnel Update
Robert Powell retired last month after 24 years of service. Those of you who had the pleasure of working with Robert over the years know that he was a kind and dedicated public servant as well as a talented geospatial analyst. Congratulations and best wishes to Robert in his retirement. I have Robert's personal email address if you'd like to stay in touch.

This month we welcome Matt Stevens to the team as an IT Geospatial Technician. Matt previously worked for City of Killeen and has experience managing spatial transportation data. Happy to have you aboard, Matt!

Our complete team member listing:

| Name                | Title           | Office      |
|:----|:----|:----|
| John Clary          | IT Supervisor        | Barton Oaks |
| Mateo Clarke         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr           | Cameron Rd |
| Alan De Anda         | IT Geospatial Technician           | Barton Oaks |
| Joey Liang          | Engineering Associate Intern           | Cameron Rd |
| Tracy Linder        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | Toomey Rd |
| Diana Martin        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr           | Cameron Rd |
| Garry Olson, Jr     | IT Business Sys. Analyst                | Barton Oaks |
| Scott Reedy         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | Barton Oaks |
| Matt Stevens         | IT Geospatial Technician                | Cameron Rd |
| *Interviewing*         | IT Geospatial Analyst, Sr | Cameron Rd |
| *Vacant (Closes 2/10)*         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr | Cameron Rd |
| *Vacant (Closes 2/10)*         | IT Application Analyst | Cameron Rd |


## Did you know?

All City staff have access to our web mapping portal, ArcGIS Online. The platform can be used to make shareable web maps using authoritative City of Austin data. Contact us for login information and training opportunities.

## Project Highlights

We're now tracking all projects and issues in our [Service Request Portal](https://atd.knack.com/dts#home2/). You can access the site with your COA email address and password.

### [Dockless Mobility Explorer and Dashboards](https://atd.knack.com/dts#service-requests/view-issue-details/5bfc6dcd3efe96584d8303af/)  | Complete

Our team has is now managing more than two million dockless trip records, and we’ve been working hard to build tools that help staff and the public make sense of this data. [Click here](https://medium.com/civiqueso/explore-dockless-data-with-austin-transportation-4a308aa5c18) to read about our approach to dockless mobility data and find links to these new resources.

### [Street Banner Request Intake & Management](https://atd.knack.com/dts#service-requests/reports/projects/view-issue-details/5bee56e8f1fbb9388f63a37d/) | In Progress

This project migrates the street banner management system from SharePoint to a Knack-based application. This work adds needed functionality around self-service banner reservations, scheduling, and tracking of installation work.

### [Austin Strategic Mobility Plan GIS Data Review + Update](https://atd.knack.com/dts#service-requests/view-issue-details/5c351bd62844dc0860a43b2e/) | In Progress

We are supporting the development of ASMP by providing a comprehensive review of the street cross-section data that serves as a reference to the plan.

### [Mobile Device Management](https://atd.knack.com/dts#service-requests/view-issue-details/5bee56e7f1fbb9388f63a35f/) | In Progress

Our team is working with CTM to implement a mobile device management solution. This technology will enable us to track and remotely manage the tablets we issue to field crews, and supports our broader effort to deploy mobile work tracking tools for our staff.
