# Data & Technology Services Update | October 2018

## Personnel Update
Susanne Gov has accepted a permenant position as an engineering technician with the Signs & Markings Division. Susanne has contributed tremendously to our team, and will be dearly missed. Congrats on your new position, Susanne!

Our complete team member listing:

| Name                | Title           | Office      |
|:----|:----|:----|
| John Clary          | IT Supervisor        | Barton Oaks |
| Mateo Clarke         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr           | Cameron Rd |
| Alan DeAnda         | IT Geospatial Technician           | Barton Oaks |
| Joey Liang          | Engineering Associate Intern           | Cameron Rd |
| Tracy Linder        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | Barton Oaks |
| Diana Martin        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr           | Cameron Rd |
| Garry Olson, Jr     | IT Business Sys. Analyst                | Barton Oaks |
| Robert Powell       | IT Support Analyst                | Barton Oaks |
| Scott Reedy         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | Barton Oaks |


## Did you know?

This month marks the one-year anniversary of our go-live of electronic traffic signal work orders in the [Data Tracker](https://transportation.austintexas.io/data-tracker). Traffic signal technicians have since submitted more than 6,500 work orders. Way to go! 

## Project Highlights

You can find all of our active and planned projects on our [Trello board](https://trello.com/b/pNbgaKme/data-technology-services-operations).

### Pavement Markings Data Release | Completed

We are excited to announce the public release of more than 40,000 pavement markings asset records. These datasets represent three years of work carried out by GIS staff—most recently by Susanne Gov—and are now a vast resource for city staff, researchers, and the public. Of particular note is the short lines dataset, which contains information on the location and condition of every crosswalk in Austin. We're not aware of any other municipality in the country that has published this kind of information at this level of detail.

Links to the datasets, which are updated on a daily basis:

- [Specialty Lines](https://data.austintexas.gov/Transportation-and-Mobility/Pavement-Markings-Specialty-Lines/86p7-68jw)

- [Short Lines](https://data.austintexas.gov/Transportation-and-Mobility/Pavement-Markings-Short-Lines/3p2i-pqdc)

- [Specialty Points](https://data.austintexas.gov/Transportation-and-Mobility/Pavement-Markings-Specialty-Points/s82i-c3nm)

### Purchase Request System Upgrade | Complete

The new [Finance and Purchasing system](https://atd.knack.com/finance-purchasing#home/) goes live tomorrow, November 1. Check your email for details on access, training, and support. 

### Docklesss Mobility Analysis and Explorer App  | In Progress

The team has provided maps and analysis of dockless mobility data in support of efforts to identify dockless parking facilities. We're also moving quickly to develop an interactive map for exploring Austin's dockless mobility data. The map will allow users to interactively explore origin/destination trip patterns based on mode.

### Waze Feed Archive | In Progress

Work is underway to automatically archive and publish Austin's real-time Waze incident feed, which is available to us through the Waze Connected Citizens Program. This incident database will serve as new resource for studying the patterns and impacts of roadway incidents.

### Traffic Registry Digitization | In Progress

Progress continues on the mapping and digitization of the traffic registry. AECOM reports that they have successfully automated approx. 70% of the digitization process and are on track to complete their work by Q2.

### Road Closure Coordination Automation | In Progress

Discovery is about to begin for identifying improvements to road closure coordination and notifications via AMANDA. Tracy Linder will be contacting stakeholders in November. 
