# Data & Technology Services Update | September 2018

## Personnel Update
- Mat Peck has accepted a position as an application analyst with the Watershed Protection Dept. Mat, we will miss you and your GIS wizardry very much! In Mat's absence, Susanne Gov is filling in as the Office of Special Events' primary GIS point of contact.

- Mateo Clarke joins our team as a front-end web developer. Mateo hails from CTM’s Office of Design and Delivery, where he served as a core developer on the alpha.austin.gov project. We look forward to Mateo's contributions to many projects, including updates to our [reporting dashboards](http://transportation.austintexas.io) as well as our mobile work order app. Mateo is currently located at Barton Oaks but will ultimately move to new Cameron Rd. facility.
 
Our complete team member listing:

| Name                | Title           | Office      |
|:----|:----|:----|
| John Clary          | IT Supervisor        | Barton Oaks |
| Mateo Clarke         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr           | Barton Oaks |
| Alan DeAnda         | IT Geospatial Technician           | Barton Oaks |
| Susanne Gov         | IT Geospatial Technician           | Toomey Rd |
| Joey Liang          | Engineering Associate Intern           | Toomey Rd |
| Tracy Linder        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | Barton Oaks |
| Diana Martin        | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr           | Toomey Rd |
| Garry Olson, Jr     | IT Business Sys. Analyst                | Barton Oaks |
| Robert Powell       | IT Support Analyst                | Barton Oaks |
| Scott Reedy         | IT Business Sys. Analyst, Sr                | Barton Oaks |

## Did you know?

We automatically archive traffic incidents from the [public safety RSS feed](http://www.ci.austin.tx.us/qact/default.cfm). Our dataset is updated every five minutes and has captured more than 70K incidents in the past year! [Download it here](https://data.austintexas.gov/Transportation-and-Mobility/Real-Time-Traffic-Incident-Reports/dx9v-zd7x).

## Project Highlights

You can find all of our active and planned projects on our [Trello board](https://trello.com/b/pNbgaKme/data-technology-services-operations).

### Barton Oaks + Toomey Rd Move | Complete

Scott Reedy and team successfully moved and/or installed 100+ PCs, 5 printers, 2 fax lines, 6 switches, and 6 TVs as part of the move from LCRA to Barton Oaks and Toomey Rd. Amazing work, Scott!

### Purchase Request System Upgrade (OPRAS 2.0) | In Progress

Due to staff availability we have extended acceptance testing through September. End-user training will being in October, with a targeted go-live data of 11/1.

### Markings Work Orders Map Viewer | Complete

This web map application displays completed markings work orders submitted through the Data Tracker. Users are able to search/view markings work orders by type, requester, etc. [Click here](https://austin.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=a206bee097194382a00515a4cc9dd029) to view the app

### Divisional Business Needs Assessments | In Progress

The DTS team will be meeting with each division to conduct an assessment of its IT needs. Our aim is to identify the critical systems and data that the division uses, their pain points, risks, and short- and long-term areas of improvement. These assessments will form the basis for a broader IT roadmap that we’ll deliver to the executive team by the end of the year. Assessments will be conducted from 10/1 through the end of the calendar year.
